# Design-of-a-45nm-High-Stability-SRAM-Array-for-Recovering-NBTI
# Abstract
Static Random Access Memory cell is a type of storage element. It is necessary for the storage of information to carry out the operation. The speed of computer systems has greatly grown, but the designers have primarily focused on increasing the stability of the memory with optimized space. Even though there is an advancement in VLSI, Negative Bias Temperature Instability is presently regarded as a serious reliability problem in current processors. SRAM-based memory cells are mostly affected by the NBTI. As SRAM cells are composed of inverters that are crossly coupled, on that time a single PMOS transistor will always be affected by NBTI, which leads to a rise in threshold voltage, a decrease in Static Noise Margin (SNM), and also reduction in SRAM performance. So, main objective is to design a memory cell with reduced NBTI and improved stability. In proposed HS SRAM has two inverters that are crossly coupled with one another (one PMOS and one NMOS transistor), adcontains a separate circuit for read operation with 1 PMOS and two NMOS transistors in addition to that there are two transistors for accessing the inverters (2 NMOS). And analysis is done on SRAM based upon delay, dynamic power, leakage power and power delay product are calculated and made a comparison with other SRAM. The memory array is designed and comprises of 64 memory cells, in addition to that row decoder and column decoder and sense amplifiers are used. For designing and simulating these circuits 45 nm technology, CADENCE Virtuoso Tool is used. The simulation for NBTI degradation is performed using Cadence Spectre Native Reliability for 10 years of operation. Results show that the HS SRAM cell attains 58.46 % higher stability when compared with other cells. And SNM degradation is improved which is 46.35% of the existing SRAM cell.
